  C is a genral-purpose programming language.It has been closely associated with the UNIX operating system where it was developed,
since both the system and most of the programs that run on it are written in C.The language,however,is not tied to any one 
operating system or machine;and although it has been callde a "system programming langugage"because it is useful for writing 
compolers and operating system,it has been used equally well to write major programs in many differen domains.
  
  Many of the important ideas of C stem from the language BCPL,developed by Martin Richards.The influence of BCPL on C proceeded 
indirectly through the language B,which was written by Ken Thompson in 1970 for the first UNIX system on the DEC PDP-7.
  
  BCPL and B are "typeless"language.By contrast,C provides a variety of data types.The fundamental types characters,and integers 
and floating point numbers of several sizes.In addition,there is a hierarchy of derived data types created with pointers,arrays,
structures and unions.Expressions are formed from operators and operands;any expression,including an assignment or a function 
call,can be a statement.Pointers provide for machine-independent address arithmetic.

  C provides the fundemmental control-flow constructions required for well-stryctured programs:statement grouping,decision 
making(if-else),selecting one of a set of possible values(switch),looping with the termination test the top(while, for)or at the 
bottom (do),and early loop exit(break).

  Functions may return values of basic types,structures,unios,or pointers.Any function may be called recursively.Local variables 
are typically"automatic",or created anew with each invocarion.Function definitions may not be nested but variables may be 
declared in a block-structured fashion.The functions of a C program may exist in separate source files that are compiled 
separately.Vaiables may be internal to a function,extenal but known only within a single source file,or cisible to the entire 
program.

  A preprocessing step performs macro substitution on program text,inclusion of other source files,and conditional compilation.

  C is a relatively "low-level"language.This characteization is not pejorative;it simply means that C deals with the same sort of 
objects that most computers do,namely characters,numbers,and addtesses.These may be combined and moved about with the arithmetisc 
and logical operations implemented by real manchines.

  C provides no operation to deal directly with composite objects such as chareacter strings,sets.lists or arrays.There are no 
operations that manipulate an entire array or string,although structures may be copied as a unit.The language does not define any 
storage allocation facility othen than static definition and the stack discipline provided by the local variables of functions;
there are no READ or WRITE starements,and no built-in file access methods.All of these higher-level mechanisms must be provided 
by explictily called functions.Most C implementations have included a reasonbly standard collection of such functions.

  Similarly,C offers only straighforward,single-thread control flow:tests,loops,grouping,and subprograms,but not multiprogramming,
parallel operations,synchronization,or coroutines.

  Although the absence of some of these features may seem like a grave deficiency.("You mean I have to call a function to compare 
two character strings?"),it keeping the language down to modest size has real benefits.Since C is relatively small,it can be 
described in small space,and learned quickly.A programmer can reasonably expect to know and understand and indeed regularly use 
the entire language.

  For many years,the definition of C was the reference manual in the first edition of The C programming language.In 1983,the 
American National Standards Institute(ANSI)established,the ANSI standard,or"ANSI C",was completed in late 1988.Most of the 
features of the standard are already suppored by modern compilers.

  The standard is based on the orginal reference manual.The language is relatively little changed;one of the goals of the 
standard was to make sure that most existing programs would remain valid,or,failing that,that compilers could produce warnings of 
new bahavior.

  For most programmers,the most important changs is the new syntax for declaring and defining functions.A function declatation 
can now include a desctiption of the atguments of the function;the definition syntax changes to match.This extra information 
makes it much easier for compilers to detect errors by mismatched arguuments;in our experience,it is a very useful adddition to 
the language.

  There are other small-scale language changs.Structure assignment and enumeration,which had been widely available,are now 
officially part of the language.Floating-point computations may now be done in single precision.The properties of arithmetic,
eapecialy for unsigned types,are clatified.The preprocessor is more elaborate.Most of these changs will have only minor effects 
on most programmmers.

  A second siginficant contribution of the standard is the definition of a library to accompany C.It spcifies functions for 
accessing the operating system(For instance,wo read and write files),formatted input and output,memory allocation,string 
manipulation,and the like.A collection of standard heaers,provides unifom access to declarations of functions if data types.
Programs that use this library to interact with a host system are assured of compatible behavior.Most of the library is closely 
modeled on the"standard I/O library"of the UNIX system.This library was described in the first deition,and has been widely used 
on other systems as well.Again,most programmers will noe see much change.

  Because the data types and control structures provided by C are suppored directly by most computers,the run-time library 
required to implement self-contained programs is tiny.The standard library functions are only called explicitly,so they can be 
avoided if they are not needed.Most can be written in C,and except for the operating system details they conceal,are themselves 
portable.

  AIthoygh C matches the capabilities of many compuers,it is independent of any particulat machine archiecture.With a little care 
it is easy to write portable programs,that is,programs that can be run without change on a variety of hardware.The standard makes 
portability issues explicit,and prescribes a set of constants that charaterize the machine on which the program is run.

  C is not a strongly-typed language,but as it has evolved,its type-checking has been strengthened.The original definition of C 
frowned on, but permitted,the interchange of pointers and integers;this has long since been eliminated,and the standard now 
requires the proper declarations and explicit conversions that had already been enforced by goog compilers.The new function 
declarations are another step in this direction.Compilers will warn of most type errors,and there is no aytomatic conversion of 
incompatble data types.Nevertheless,C retains the basic philosophy that programmers know what they are doing;in only any requires 
that thry state their intentions explicitly.

  C,like any other language.has its blemishes.Some of the opeartors have the wrong precedence;some parts of the syntax could be 
better.Nonetheless,C has proven to ben an extremely effective and expressive language for a wide variery of programming 
applications.

  The book is organized as follows.Chapter 1 is a tutorial on the cantral part of C.The purpose is to get the reader started as 
quickly as possible,since we believe strongly that the way to learn a new language is to write programs in it.The tutorial does 
assume a working knowledge of the basic elements of programming;there is no explanation of computers,of compilation,not of the 
meaning of an expression like n=n+1.AIthough we have tried where possible to show usefu programming techniques,the book is not 
intended to be a reference work on data structures and algorithms;when forced to make a choice,we have concentrated on the 
language.

  Chapters 2 through 6 discuss vaious aspects of C in more detail,and rather more formally,than does Chapter 1,although the 
emphasis is still on examples of complete programs,rether than isolated fragments.Chapter 2 deals with the basic data types,
operators and expressions.Chapter 3 therats control flow:if-else,switch,while,for,etc.Chapter 4 covers functions and program 
structure - external variables,scope rules,multiple source files,and so on - and also touches on the preprocessor.Chapter 5 
discusses pointers and address arithmetic.Chapter 6 covers structures and unions.

  Chapter 7 describes the standard libraty,which provides a common interface to the operating system.This library is defined by 
the ANSI standard and is meant to be supported on all machines that support C,so programs that use it for input,output,and other 
opeating system access can be moved from one system to another without change.

  Chapter 8 describes an interface between C programs and the UNIX opeating system, concentrating on input/output,the file 
system,and storage allocation.AIthogh some of this chapter is specifrc to UNIX systems,programmers who use other systems should 
still find useful material here ,including some insight into how one version of the standard library is implemented,and 
suggestions on portability.

  Appendix A contains a language reference manual.The offcial statment of the syntax and semantics of the C language is the ANSI 
standard itself.That document,however,is intended foremost for compiler writers.The reference itself.That document,however,is 
intended foremost for compiler writers.The reference manual here conveys the definition of the language more concisely and with 
the same legalistic style.Appendix B is a summary of the standard library,again for users rather than implementers.Appendi C is a 
short summary of changes from the original language.In cases of doubt,however,the standard and one's own compiler temain the 
final authorities on the language.


